( Audio) My Den In the early 20th century, A meteorologist named Alfred Wegener noticed striking similarities. Between the coasts of Africa and South America. These observations led him to propose a controversial new theory: Maybe these continents and many others were once connected. On a single, vast continent. Wegener's theory of "continental drift" goes against popular opinion That the continents on Earth have remained stable for millennia. And for his supporters, it took him almost 50 years. To convince the scientific community on a larger scale. But today, we know something even more interesting. In the oldest runoff of supercontinents, "Pangea" is only thought to be the most recent. And it's not going to be the last supercontinent. "Continuous continental drift" laid the foundation for the modern theory of plate tectonics, This tells us that the Earth's crust is made up of huge, jagged plates. That moves over a partially molten rock layer is called mantle. These layers move at a rate of only about 2.5 to 10 centimeters per year. But these ascending displacements shape the surface of the planet. So to determine when a supercontinent will emerge, So we need to predict where these patches are going to drift. One method is to observe how they moved in the past. Geologists can trace the location of continents over time. We're measuring the changes in the magnetic field of the Earth. As the lava cools, the magnetic minerals freeze. at a particular time. So by calculating the direction and the intensity The magnetic field of a given rock. We can discover latitude at the moment it cools. But this method has serious limitations. Because one thing is that a rock's magnetic field doesn't tell us about the longitude of the plate. And the latitude measurement can be either north or south. Worse still, the magnetic data was erased when the rock heated up again. Like in continental collisions or volcanic activity. Geologists therefore need to use other methods to reconstruct continental positions. The dating of fossils and comparison with the global fossil record It can help identify areas that were previously connected. The same is true for other cracks and deformations of the Earth's crust. This can sometimes be traced through continental plates. Using these methods, scientists have been able to string together Relatively accurate history of plate movement, And their research has revealed a pattern that spans hundreds of millions of years. What is now known as the "Wilson Cycle." It's a prediction of how the continents have split and merged. And recently it predicted that the next supercontinent would form. It's about 50 to 250 million years from today. We can't know for sure what that continent will look like. It could be a new Pangea rising from the closing of the Atlantic Ocean. Or perhaps it's the formation of a new Pan-Asian Ocean. But while its shape and size remain a mystery, We know that these changes will affect more than national boundaries. In the past, plate collisions have caused major environmental changes. When the supercontinent Rodinia broke up about 750 million years ago, It left a vast continent vulnerable to weathering. The recently discovered rock has absorbed more CO2 from the rain, This removes a lot of carbon dioxide from the atmosphere. The Earth was in what is known as the " Snowball Earth. " Over time, volcanic activity released CO2, which melted this ice. But that process took another three to six million years. Meanwhile, as the next supercontinent regrouped, It's more likely to heat things up. Plate displacements and continental collisions can create and extend The cracks in the Earth's crust. This leads to the latent release of large amounts of carbon and CH4 into the atmosphere. The flooding of greenhouse gases will cause the planet to warm up rapidly. It can cause mass extinction. The size of these cracks would be almost impossible to seal. Even if we could, the pressure would only create new cracks. Fortunately, we've had at least 50 million years to come up with a solution here. And we may have discovered something. In Iceland, recent tests have shown that it is possible to store carbon in basalt. This makes the conversion of these gases into rock very fast. So there's a possibility of a global network of pipelines. They can redirect the gas that's coming out of the rock into basalt deposits. This will reduce emissions and protect our future supercontinent.