Over the years, people have come up with really bad apologies. From classic non-apologies to evasive excuses, And the company's fragile promises, It's easy to make bad apologies. But researchers have found that good apologies share a common theme. And careful consideration of these factors can help you to correct them. in a variety of situations. Because public apology has its own complexities, So we're going to focus on a few personal examples. Imagine: your new office has a free ice cream sandwich. in the common refrigerator Or at least that's what you think. But on Friday, when you helped your colleague Terence... Celebrating by another colleague. He saw half the ice cream he bought for the anniversary was gone. Although this was clearly an embarrassing accident, It's still the right thing to stand up and apologize. Understand and accept responsibility for your actions is what some researchers call the "center of apology." But if you feel difficult and vulnerable, that's okay-- it's that The costly nature of an apology is part of what makes it meaningful. So while you may be tempted to defend your actions as It's important to remember that a good apology It's not about making you feel better. It's about finding out what the wrong side's perspective is. and repair the relationship. This means that while clarifying your intentions without defensiveness can Your mistake was an accident. It should not have exempted you from the offer. A very sincere apology. But what if your mistake wasn't an accident? Consider this: I promised my friend Marie I'd attend her championship soccer match. But another friend just called to ask for an extra ticket. For a farewell tour of my favorite musicians. You know this is a once - in - a - lifetime opportunity, And you can't ignore it. Besides, you think Marie wouldn't mind if you missed the game? She always had a lot of fans. But the next day, Marie tells him that she is badly injured. When she can't see you in the crowd. You feel bad about making her sad and want to apologize. But while I regret hurting Marie, You're not really sure that you made the wrong choice. So how do we overcome that non-judgmentalism, "I'm sorry about this"? In situations like this, it's easy to focus on being rational. When you need to try to understand the other person's perspective. Ask Marie how you made them feel. to better understand your criminal behavior. In this case, Marie can explain that she was disappointed. You broke your promise. And she really depends on your support. This clarity can help you recognize your own misbehavior. and honestly accept how your actions have done harm. Then you can say you're sorry about her concerns, Perhaps by admitting that you were wrong to break your promise, And I regret not being with her. Recognizing Your Wrong Behavior Shows You Know Exactly how you screwed up, And it might give Marie the confidence that you'll behave differently when you move on. But it's always helpful to show exactly how you're going to change. And what you will do to repair the damage caused by your criminal acts. Researchers call this a "repair proposal." And it's often considered one of the most important parts of an apology. In some cases, these gestures are very direct. Like, you can offer to replace the ice cream that you eat. However, with less obvious violations, This may need to be more symbolic, For example, you could say, âI'm sorry I couldn't help you with your homework. A common repair proposal is verbal commitment No more of that mistake. But promises of doing better only work if you actually do better. Taking the victim's perspective, accepting responsibility, and make specific recommendations for repairs just a few of the elements of a good apology. But remember, apologizing is not about being forgiven and moving on; It's about expressing regret and accepting responsibility. And the best apology is just the first step. on the path to reconciliation.